## 3 tier Architecture

This architecture is a deep dive to understanding the different independent services of AWS and how they interact to help design a highly available infrastructure.

I'd analyze the different layers of this architecture to help understand how it works.

# VPC Layer
This layer deals with the networking of the infrastructure, it comprises of private subnets, public subnets, Nat Gateways, internet gateway, route tables. The private subnets are mainly for the frontend and backend EC2 instances to protect them from being accessible to the public, they will only be only be able to communictae via the NAT gateway. The database layer for the RDS is also provided in a private subnet and it communicates via the NAT gateway.

# Security Groups
This is layer handles the different ingress and egress ports and protocols for connecting to the VPC and EC2 instances. It basically protects the application for malicious and unknown attacks from unknown connections.

# Secrets
This layer stores the different sensitive credentials generated by the RDS which is the database. Secrets stores database passwords, and other sensitive details.

# RDS
Relational DatabaseS (RDS) is simply the database layer of the application. It stores every input generated by the user, this layer is kept secure from being accessed by the public.

# IAM
Identity access management (IAM) this layer handles the roles and policies that grant access to the application. This policies ensure the least privilege to each user on the resources in the infrastructure.

# Frontend ASG and Backend ASG.
ASG(Auto Scaling Group) is simply the layer template responsible for handling the replication of more instances to handle the increase in trafffic to the application to ensure high availability. They also ensure that these instances are healthy at all times and when idle they reduce the inactive instances to save cost. 

# Bastion Host
Bastion host is a layer to connect through an SSH (Secure Shell Host). This connection is solely for the specificied IP address to securely connect to the server. It is not accessible to the public.

# ALB
Application Load Balancer (ALB) it ensures that the load is distributed and between instances and it also performs health checks on the instances.
